# FortranAS Command Line Arguments
The following section will provide details on command line arguments supported
by **FortranAS**


## `-h,--help`
Print help

## `-l,--list-lexers`
List available lexers and exit

List all available **Antlr4** lexers detected by **FortranAS**.

## `-L,--lexer <arg>`
This flag specifies the lexer to use with `-p,--parse-fortran-files`.

The default is specified by the `default_lexer` configuration
parameter in [FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf#L7). This will be used if none
is supplied with `-L,--lexer <arg>`. Any lexer provided by 
[grammars-v4 🔗](https://github.com/antlr/grammars-v4/tree/master/fortran).
Use `-l,--list-lexers` to see what lexers **FortranAS** is able to use.


## `-p,--parse-fortran-files` 
Parse FORTRAN files


All FORTRAN files provided by the input source code directory 
(`-i,--input-source-code-directory <arg>`) will be recursively parsed.
Any file extension specified by the `fortran_file_extensions` configuration
parameter in [FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf#L13). Each discovered
FORTRAN file will be parsed and serialized with several artifacts generated for
each FORTRAN file. For a detail of all the artifacts generated by **FortranAS**
please review the [FortranAS Artifacts 🔗](artifacts.md)
documentation.

### Non-standard Language Features
The Antlr4 grammars cannot parse FORTRAN source code that uses non-standard language
features such as preprocessor directives. In order to process
these files with **FortranAS** the preprocessor directives must be removed.
There is no perfect way to do this. **FortranAS** provides a shell script that
uses the command line tool [unifdef](https://dotat.at/prog/unifdef/) in the
tools directory called `unifdef.sh`. This shell script will strip all
preprocessor directives from the FORTRAN source code in the `./source` directory.
To run it place fortran `./source` and run the provide script:
```bash
bash tools/unifdef.sh
```


### FortranAS Database
When the `-p,--parse-fortran-files` flag is supplied to **FortranAS** a database
is generated in the current working directory of **FortranAS** with the default
file name: `FortranAS.sqlite3`. If the database already exists then it is used. 
All `nodes` and `subtrees` from every parsed FORTRAN file will placed in this 
database. A summary of every parsed FORTRAN file will be placed in the
`fortran_files` table.

The **FortranAS** database is specified by the `database_file` configuration
parameter in [FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf#L3) (Default database file: 
`FortranAS.sqlite3`).

### Subtree Bounding
Subtrees can be bounded and selectively inserted into the `subtree` table by
modifying the subtree bounding parameters in the [FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf).
Any subtree not within the minimum and maximun depth and size will not be
inserted into the `subtree` table. Modify the following parameters to change the
subtree bounding:
```text
...
minimum_subtree_depth = 0 
maximum_subtree_depth = 25 
minimum_subtree_size = 0
maximum_subtree_size = 150
...
```

Reducing the number of subtrees in the `subtree` table will reduce the clone
calculation time.

## `-c,--calculate-code-clones` 
Calculate code clones for all subtrees in the provided database

This flag operates on the **FortranAS** database (default database file name: 
`FortranAS.sqlite3`) and the `subtree` table. Every subtree in the `subtree` 
table will be used to calculate a
code clone pair using a number of natural language processing (NLP) algorithms.
Code clone pair calculations are parallelized and divided amongst the number of
available cores. All clone pair calculation results are placed in the `clones` 
table. 

To enable or disable a given NLP algorithm modify the appropriate section in the 
[FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf):
```text
...
bleu_score_enabled = true
jaro_winkler_similarity_enabled = true
sorensen_dice_coefficient_enabled = false
cosine_similarity_enabled = false
...
```
All subtrees will be compared with all other subtrees in the database resulting
O(n^(2)) complexity. Total clone calculation time can be reduced by disabling
NLP algorithms. Alternatively, clone calculation time can be also reduced by
bounding the number of subtrees in the subtree table (See the
[Subtree Bounding](#subtree-bounding) paragraph for more information). 


Code clone pair calculations can be filtered from insertion to the database by
modifying the `minimum_bleu_score` configuration
parameter in [FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf#L7). Any clone pair with a blue
score less then the minimum specified will not be inserted into the database.


## `-P,--print-fortran-files`
Print discovered FORTRAN files and exit

This flag will print all FORTRAN files in the supplied source code directory 
(specified by `-i,--input-source-code-directory <arg>`). The 
`fortran_file_extensions` configuration parameter in 
[FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf#L13) dictates what file extensions to include.

Example output:
```text
    Printing FORTRAN files...
 
      source file #1: /tmp/FortranAS/source/fortran_code_samples/249.f90
      source file #2: /tmp/FortranAS/source/fortran_code_samples/273.f90
      source file #3: /tmp/FortranAS/source/fortran_code_samples/273_print.f90
      source file #4: /tmp/FortranAS/source/fortran_code_samples/273_result.f90
      source file #5: /tmp/FortranAS/source/fortran_code_samples/274.f90
      ...
```

## `-s,--summarize-database`
This is a helper flag that prints a summary of all tables the provided database 
specified by the `database_file` configuration parameter in 
[FortranAS.conf](../FortranAS.conf#L3) (Default database file: `FortranAS.sqlite3`).

Example output:
```text
  Printing FortranAS database summary...
    Database Summary for: FortranAS.sqlite3
      File Size: 3.95 MB
      Table: clones, Records: 639
      Table: fortran_files, Records: 25
      Table: nodes, Records: 7950
      Table: subtrees, Records: 566
```

## `-i,--input-source-code-directory <arg>`
This flag defines what input FORTRAN source code directory to use when parsing
the default is `./source`.

## `-o,--output-directory <arg>`
This flag defines what output directory to use for all **FortranAS** generated 
artifacts; the default output directory is `./output`.
